People certainly were more involved with reading and writing in the past, simply because there really weren't many options to convey complex information any other way compared to current possibilities. With TV and radio also being somewhat limited, because not everyone had access.

Today, the information content isn't necessarily smaller, but it is delivered in a much more compact way; emoticons for example, even memes or pop-culture references. Take a look at entire comment sections on social media, most of the time it's very limited exchange but everyone knows what people are talking about.

Nothing about this has anything to do with happiness (I'm confident I did not imply that), nor intelligence (as other replies seem to assume). It's about the difference in how writing skills mattered more, specifically in a professional environment.

The quip at tl;dr isn't so much about its benefit or history, but more about the expectation these days to provide tl;dr because people don't want to read long texts and tend to get annoyed (and express that) if the individial is not catering towards their personal needs (which there is no obligation to do so as far as I'm concerned).

My point simply is that if you have to read/write a lot, you are exercising a lot more, as you explore different ways to express thoughts in different context. I think "being fluent" is a good way to describe this, as the person simply knows how to express themselves properly without giving it much thought. The skill has become such an important part of their job (or personal life), that they do have an easy time reading/writing in general. The ability to draft more complex texts is just a byproduct of that process.

But if you simply avoid reading/writing longer texts, you are getting used to a certain format, while no longer refining skills involved to craft more elaborate texts. It's not a bad thing per se, it's just an observation. 

As an example, if your job requires you to sometimes write in corporate speak, you may stay on top of things. But let's say you haven't written in that style for over two decades for whatever reasons, it's going to be more difficult. Ofc you are going to be impressed by ChatGPT who can do it for you within a short amount of time. 

Something like that wouldn't even have happened in the past because there was no ChatGPT and you had to literally apply yourself in order to get back on track with the corporate speak, because unless you wanted to get fired, you better improved those skills asap.