"It's also clearly written by ChatGPT."

I teach college courses, and I can tell you professors are mildly concerned at best. As others have noted here, a lot of us already structure our courses in ways that require students to show development of their work over time, that's just part of the critical thinking process we're meant to develop. A student *could* use ChatGPT for some of that, sure. But the other key thing is, when you read 100s of essays every year, you can pick up on common structures. It's how, for example, we can often figure out if a student is an ESL student without even seeing a name. ChatGPT has some pretty formulaic structures of its own. I've read a few essays it's written and it's pretty clear it's following a formula. A student *could* take that structure and modify it to be more unique. At that point, I wouldn't be able to tell, and oh well, I'll move on with my life.

Another thing is that plagiarism tools like TurnItIn are adding AI detection. I don't know how well these will work, but it's another reason why I'm not that concerned.

A bigger reason I'm not concerned is the same reason I'm not losing my mind over regular plagiarism. I'll do my due diligence in making sure students are getting the most out of their education by doing the work, but beyond that, it's on the student. I'm not a cop, I'm not getting paid to investigate, I'm getting paid to educate. If someone doesn't want to learn, they'll do whatever they can to avoid that. Sometimes, that involves plagiarism. Sometimes, it involves leaving the class, or paying someone to do their work, or using AI now, I guess. In order to maintain fairness, academic integrity, and a general sense of educational value, I'll do what I can to grade as necessary. But you can't catch every case if the person is good at it.

As a tool, I think ChatGPT could actually be really useful as well. It could help create outlines, find sources, and possibly provide feedback. I'm far more interested in figuring out ways of working it into the classroom than I am shaking in fear that students will cheat with it.

Tldr: Anecdotally, most professors I know are just fine with ChatGPT and will adapt to it.