> Or it might also be because you're not a student, you're not in the class, and there is zero upside to responding to you.

And cause we are swamped lol. Literally like all the time swamped.

I'm an academic, currently in the middle of finishing two PhD's, and I am swamped. Every other academic I know, is swamped lol.

Right now here (Canada) it is end of term. I have some 40 end of term papers for a 2nd year class to finish marking still, and their final is coming up. And that is just one class lol.

On top of that, I have two conferences to prepare for this summer, plus an archaeological dig I am going on for several weeks.

Maybe swamped doesn't describe it lol.

That also doesn't even get into the fact that I get an easy dozen emails from students daily, asking for extensions on stuff, asking to meet about their marks, etc, etc. That's just my students, the ones I actually have to pay attention to and be there for (I have a strong respond in 24 hours policy).

Assuming the email even got through (some academic emails will filter out stuff that doesn't come from students/academic email addresses and mark it as spam) why would I read it?

Assuming they did read it, as an academic, ChatGPT papers are **immediately** identifiable. You would read it, go "This is a terrible paper" and then get back to whatever actual work you have. ChatGPT literally just makes up sources. It will write something, cite a source, but then the source itself doesn't actually exist. It would take me all of five seconds looking at this to go "Huh, I am not familiar with this author/article", then dig a little and go "uhh I've never heard of that journal either" and look it up and realize it doesn't exist.

Like I've told my students. When you write a paper in my area, I've probably read the articles/books you're going to cite. If I haven't, I've probably met with or worked with the author you're going to cite. So just assume that I know what is going on in my field, and don't try and pull one over on me. I will notice.

ChatGPT isn't pulling one over on any academic I know. If the academics they emailed were "shocked and horrified" it was probably because they were shocked someone would email them at literally one of the busiest times of the year and horrified at how bad the paper was.

Also, of anyone to email why the Dean? lol. Of the entire academic faculty, they are probably the least likely to be teaching often, if at all. At my university Chair's only have to teach one class per-semester, and every Dean I work with (I sit on a few committee's/council's) doesn't teach at all. They are solely focused on administration/organization priorities.

Just shows a serious lack of insight into how academics works in my opinion.