The "privacy issues" are likely not perfectly solvable without throwing the baby out with the bathwater. 

If you train an AI on the contents of a public library then there's a good chance that someone will have written information about individuals who live in the EU in at least some of those books.

Technically the GDPR applies to information on paper exactly the same as it does to info on computer systems but enforcement against libraries is apparently rare. 

So an author, John Smith includes a sentence in a book. "During my trip I met my friend from Naples, Bob Esposito who is a wonderful gay man and he likes sardines!" 

Right there we've got "sensitive" personal information of Bob Esposito.

technically that would make the library a "data controller" and by extension so is anyone who trains an AI on the contents of that library.

The library likely didn't get consent from Bob Esposito... but public *libraries tend to not have deep pockets.*

But lets imagine that Bob then goes to chatGPT and asks "what do you know about Bob Esposito from Naples?" and it comes back "He's a gay man who's friends with John Smith and he likes sardines" or perhaps it hallucinates and it comes back "He's a gay man from Florence who's friends with John Smith and he likes sardines and cheese"

Bob Esposito then goes "I did not give consent to them storing my information! Also I HATE sardines and I hate John Smith ever since he slept with my husband! They're holding inaccurate information about me!"

Under the GDPR both the library and openai could be forced to delete his information and/or amend "inaccurate" information about him.... but big neural networks don't store information like a classical database. You can't just run "delete * from persons where name=='Bob Esposito' ". The information is stored in a fuzzy network. 

In practice you can't perfectly filter all personal information about real people that anyone ever might have included in a book or song or poem or novel.

This would also apply to everyone. not just big companies. 

So it would amount to a total ban on a lot of types of AI research in the EU.

My bet is that enforcement is 100% political. microsoft will be strongarmed into opening some call centers in german and Italian towns with high unemployment, they'll add a click-box to their website and then the governments will magically declare that microsoft/openai are trying hard enough to comply with the GDPR. if that's what happens then it will turn into a giant pile of regulatory capture.