I cant speak for the financial disruption aspect of it, but I can comment on my own personal use for AI. ChatGPT is really good at one thing in particular, and it’s in the name: transforming (large volumes of) text. 

Spoiler tags cause I was too excited and wrote a lot.

>!As a hobby, if I can call it that, I spend a lot of time writing to public / state officials regarding gross misconduct and criminal violations about other state officials under their supervision. The source of information mostly came from YouTube videos, where I would play and replay the video minute by minute in order to understand and communicate the breadth of the situation. It could take me over an hour to watch a video, find a public official’s name and email address, then rewatch the video as Im writing the email. Mildly laborious process, not sustainable.!<

>!I discovered in January a massive shortcut to this using chatGPT. I could use a chrome extension that auto transcribes a YT video’s audio to plain text, with time stamps, provides the source YT link, and it can mostly accurately autotag how many “speakers” are in the video, ie police officer is speaker 1, citizen is speaker 2, youtuber’s commentary speaker 3. when I fed that auto transcript to Chat it could very well understand the Who When Where and most importantly WHY there was potentially criminal misconduct, even before I’ve asked it to write about that. !<

>!Using a 3 step template, I tell chatGPT I am about to give it a transcript, asking for it to write an email using as many context clues as it can gather. If the transcript said NYPD, it wrote the email FOR the NYPD police chief, the NYC mayor, sometimes Internal Affairs. With Bing AI (a modified CGPT) it would be 100% accurate on the names and could even find their email address for me! This reduced my hour long process to nearly 10-15 minutes, where most of the time I spent fact-checking the output. Why is that so magical to me? I could almost get away with not even watching the whole YouTube video, if at all. ChatGPT could “watch” it for me. !<

TLDR: in September last year, a woman in north Seattle was seen attacking fenced-in dogs with pepper spray, *just because* they barked at her dogs when she was walking by. She had ties to the Seattle PD, yet SPD never once made a public comment about any kind of investigation. Using extensions to aid chatGPT, I wrote 15 emails in 1 hour, each individually composed to the police chiefs of all surrounding cities near Seattle. 2 of them responded that she is no longer living in WA, but that my description of events and sources have been forwarded to law enforcement outside of the state.