I agree almost entirely with what you just clarified. 

One issue that ChatGPT solves for some and not others is the means to a different end. If a Gen Ed writing class is required for someone with aspirations to get into a field where writing is not likely to be a core skill set, it's a much different situation than someone using it o. Their path to becoming a journalist. Generally speaking I think Gen Ed requirements should be fulfilled in public schooling and not university where the subject matter is sometimes not relevant and costs tens of thousands of dollars for the student to simply endure. 

I want to clarify that I am not saying that unrestricted reliance on AI to do the work for you is an acceptable method, but I do believe that the tool should be encouraged to be employed and we should teach how to use it in a way that doesn't hinder understanding or result. 

It's not the tool itself that is the potential problem, but students' understanding of how to employ it in a way that still facilitates them being able to articulate their OWN thought and understanding. That's no easy task, but it's a worthwhile one because the genie simply isn't going back in that bottle. 

In regard to the HVAC analogy, experience is not substituted by study nomatter how the content is delivered or sourced. What makes HVAC technicians a better option than an intelligent friend with the right tools and instruction is experience not education which brings me to my final thought. 

I have a problem with how our higher education institutions are structured, and fundamentally the problemset of how to best enable young adults for success in a modern economy and society is too complex to be facilitated by the standard of old. A significant portion of today's laborers would be better served by a apprenticeship than by spending absurd amounts of money to be educated in a way that will not translate into their income potential, or ability to employ modern tools to help whatever business they become a part of succeed. This is to your earlier point very dependent on the career path the student is looking to recieve preparation for. 

I appreciate your response and demeanor, I don't think you are an old fuddy duddy but I do think our education system itself is a but antiquated and needs a makeover that facilitates more practical approaches based on fields/degrees. 

As a devops engineer I routinely seek people with even just 2 consecutive years of experience at a previous job than someone with a four year degree to join my team. Ita my experience college students are more and more under prepared to work in obscurity than self educated folks with certificates and experience. 

My advice to teenagers at this point is (depending on the field) is to take lower paid jobs and gain experience or join the military. Makes more sense for them and ultimately evens out over the period of 4 years in my field.