I have been using it as a teacher, or a tutor.  I sit with it and ask it questions regarding highly technical aspects in my field. It has helped me break through and solve a litany of problems that have been plaguing me for decades.  I finally have the answers, and I can take those answers into the tangible world, use them, and it fixes my issue.  For context, I work in audio.  Audio is a highly technical field that has an extremely deep knowledge base.  Talking to chat gpt about it is like talking to someone who's been studying audio for 100 years. My knowledge caps out at the event horizon of my mind.  But I an identify the edge, then start to pick away at it with chatgpt until I have a solid understanding of the fundamentals or underlying aspects of audio sciences that have been a mystery to me forever.  Yes I could 'just read a book ' and yes a book has a glossary.  But when gpt gives me an answer that has vocabulary I am unfamiliar with, I just ask it the next question regarding the word from the previous one.  This is invariably making me more knowledgeable in my field, and also making me smarter by forcing me to expand my mind and see where I need improvement then think of ways to ask gpt questions that illicit coherent answers.  
I showed this to some friends and they're like eh its wrong half the time, and they're talking about having it write emails blah blah blah who cares about email.  Use it to enhance your brain.  Ask it questions then ask it more questions regarding the answers until you truly comprehend a subject and you can kind of rotate it in your mind like a 3d model and examine it from every angle.  Its like talking to an all knowing God genius in my field... and it also just happens to be an expert in every field that exists.. lol and people are using it to get out of parking tickets.  I guess I have to give myself a pat on the back cuz maybe I think I'm smart or something, but it does seem like the general lack of curiosity and ability for people to use this thing as more than a toy proves that most people brains are not ready and will look at a supercomputer and think its a toy because their brains are tiny and smooth like a half sucked Starburst.