I bet this is the same kid who reminded the teacher she forgot to give out today's homework. 

*Whole class groans*


Jokes aside, I'm actually glad for this. I think critical thinking has a hard enough time in society, introducing something that can just do it all for you could show an actual feasible decline in students care for putting in effort. Why bother working out these problems if I can just have it generated? 

We see these bad takes all the time, especially as new approaches to consuming media come along. Books were said to melt your brain once. Then TV. Then video games. Now it's AI, lol. 

There's a few takes I have about this. The first is that while chat AI could be useful and non-plagiaristic in certain circumstances, using it as a basic question and verbose answer generator is the path of least resistance. The are and will be people doing the former, the majority will likely be doing the latter, hence my concerns. 

The second is that, unlike hobbies, education affects you long term. Personally, I don't mind AI art in most cases. You do some prompts, you play with images, you collage and get results. AI generated art is literally just contemporary magazine collages done with a computer. There *is* an issue with people passing it off as their own work and trying to commission and etc. Sure, real artist debate and all that. But if I'm poor? I just shouldn't have the opportunity to create assets for my personal projects that may never even see the light of day in whatever ways I can? Just like the internet, AI is a tool and can be used *really easily* for taking work and passing it as your own and I don't think it's fair to have money not being given to real artists be the cinch around AI arts neck. 

For the most part, it's silly ideas and a fun pass time. *It's a hobby*. You do it, you're done with it. AI art generally doesn't matter or have any real affect on people's lives. Artists are going to continue to get paid, people are going to continue to find shortcuts to get results, undercutting other artists. This is just the reality of the world *with or without AI*, and little Jimmy or Janice spending 3 hours on a computer typing in "album art of hotdogs with sunglasses" isn't putting any artists out on the street and it's providing us some entertainment. Maybe even some inspiration, and Janice decides she wants to put the hotdog album covers on a piece of paper in her own style and all of the sudden we have another artist in the world. Not that different from seeing a cool part of a magazine, cutting it out and compositing it on a book, or taking elements and superimposing them to make images in Photoshop. With this in mind can you agree that to an extent, using AI to make art isn't too big of an issue, even if you disagree with AI art and it's implications overall? If not that's okay, it's not really my main point with this anyway.

Enter ChatGPT on little Jimmys homework assignment. The assignment was to write an essay using themes and concepts that he had learned from over the semester. He gets to choose 3 topics which he finds are relatable and to exercise how they do so. 

So one then might think a potentially good use of ChatGPT would be to ask about 3 ancient cultures, Greeks, Romans, and the Incas, and to expiate on what aspects were similar, which were different, if geography played any part, what historical contexts had an effect on them, and so on. This would almost certainly give you bounds of information. And well, if the information is accurate then that may not be too bad. 

But the skills of doing that research and putting it together in a presentation are not honed. Jimmy completed the assignment, maybe even with the highest score for depth of knowledge and whatever. The technical answer was good. 

But, critical thinking is like math class. It's useless if you can't really show your work because the answer isn't why we are taking classes to learn. We have to practice and practice, constantly pushing ourselves to learn and these stick with us and form us into the conversationalists that we become. Unlike AI art where you just look like an idiot if you pass off it's work as your own, showing off hundreds of them every 10 minutes, using chatGPT to do your work for you is literally taking away the practice of your critical skills. Kids today primarily trying to cheat with ChatGPT are most likely going to have crazy difficult times forming cohesive arguments without any guidance on how to use the tool in a way that still allows them to think critically. 

On the other hand, maybe the kids will just (brain)download ChatGPT's information from every question and become little savants who know what AI would say in response to every question. After all my generation did grow up with chatbots and look at this reasonable wall of text I put out just now. I'm definitely normal, right? 


Tl;Dr AI is a tool and should be treated as such. There are tools that are engaging and constructive, making humans quick-witted and adaptable. There are tools, maybe the very same ones, that make things simple, so simple that people forget how to do more complex things. Neither tool is inherently wrong, however using the former tool is absolutely going to breed innovation.