Former teacher here, I think we need to revamp how we teach in general.

Don't get me wrong, a certain level of in skull factual knowledge is important, at the very least people need to know the general framework of whatever so they can comprehend the rest.

But we don't need to be focusing much on factual memorization anymore, I think we need to spend a lot more effort teaching people how to search effectively, how to evaluate sources, and how to quickly integrate searched facts.

Every test should be open book, and by "open book" I mean "full access to the internet". Because the important part is knowing how things fit together, being able to explain relationships between things, being able to write effectively and make persuasive arguments. 

&#x200B;

So I'm glad to see the teacher looking more at getting essays done right, and I hope that by "restrict computer activity" they mean "no chatGPT" not "no google". 

Right this second everyone carries a device capable of accessing very close to the sum total of all human knowledge. And most people are terrible at using them for that purpose. I don't care if you can recall off the top of your head that the Meiji Restoration took place in 1868. Or that WWI started on June 28, 1914. 

The important questions are can you tell me WHY the Meiji Restoration happened and what it was about? Can you tell me WTF was going on in Europe at that time that assassinating a single guy could kick off a content wide war that would last four years of bloody grinding combat? Can you tell me why WWI had such a huge number of casualties despite territorial gains being minimal?

&#x200B;

If you want to know an exact date, that's what google is for. If you can't recall off the top of your head if it was Wilhelm I, II, or III who ruled Prussia in 1914, that's what google is for. If you can't remember the atomic weight of selenium, that's what google is for.

Your brain is for drawing conclusions, connections, and making sense of those facts not memorizing them.