Except what would be the point? If you can walk it through writing the essay, why are you not just writing the essay?

People are using it to fill in a spot where they want something done that they should be doing, but either can’t do, or won’t do. 

Kids have already started to lose the ability to spell, use proper grammar, and are not learning how to craft the proper structure of an argument. 

Unless Chat GPT doing these things for you is going to be accepted at every level above HS, you are going to have issues if you want do it yourself. Plenty of college exams require short “essays” to be written on exams, on paper, during the in-class exam period.

If you don’t know how to structure and craft an argument because you had CharGPT do it for you up until then, you are going to have a real problem.

Maybe if you convinced me that the kids were having ChatGPT do this, and then studying its output, learning why it is doing what it does, and also learning to check if it is correct… ok, maybe then we can consider it a learning aid and there is still a form of learning going on.

The problem is that that is not at all what is happening in the real world right now. If you already know the output you want, and have the time to walk ChatGPT through giving you a good essay… why are you even using it? You already can do it. 

I know kids from university who never learned how to structure and write a proper essay. They struggled. They struggled a lot in essay heavy courses. This is before we even discuss the kids who just never learned the right answer, or never learned how to research. 

ChatGPT is built on a snapshot of the internet. It isn’t online. It doesn’t have the entirety of internet knowledge in its database. If kids start relying on it for relatively basic essays, they are in for a world of problems when they encounter an essay that involves something that is not in that snapshot, after going multiple years without ever having to learn how to research and compose an essay.