Human societies always had their undesirables. People unable or unwilling to contribute. Thus far, this problem was never truly *solved*. And now, we may be facing a world where those "undesirables" aren't the bottom 2% of human productivity. We are very likely see 10% of all working age humans alive become incapable of meaningfully contributing to society in our lifetimes. We may see that number hit 25%, 50% or more.

I find it hard to be optimistic about society adapting to that change quick, and in a way that would be satisfying to those left behind. The best course of action I can see for now is: not be a part of that "reject" group. Or at least delay hitting that bracket for as long as you can.

>One thing is becoming clear: White collar jobs - those that can be performed from home, over an Internet connection - are considerably easier to replace than blue collar jobs - those that require physical manipulation of objects. AI will decimate white collar jobs long before it gets to the blue collar ones. It is those former white-collar workers who will convince us to adapt to UBI.

It really *depends*. Before ChatGPT or Stable Diffusion, most expected the exact opposite to be true - for writers or artists to be the most resistant to the advent of AI. Those expectations were overturned. They were overturned hard.

We are a single upset advance away from the same threat being pointed at blue collar jobs too.

It may happen at any moment, with very little warning. We know well that many teams are already working on making it happen. Some of those teams have world-class AI experts, some have nigh-unlimited corporate resources, and even teams that have neither can still make a breakthrough by the virtue of having the right idea at the right time - or taking the ideas developed by other and developing them into a system that's truly practical to use.

So far, my white collar ass has been "AI safe". No guarantee that it wouldn't be in the crosshairs next year though. You and your blue collar job don't have that guarantee either.