> what i'm emphasizing is that neurodiversity exists and the fact that I'm able to teach myself things more effectively than other people isn't necessarily reflective of a character flaw those people suffer from but rather a learned skill I have cultivated. Just because I had to engage with a particular struggle to acquire certain skills doesn't mean that struggle and those skills are intertwined.

"Neurodiversity" is not the same as "I can't learn by myself" or "I can't think by myself," so your point seems unrelated to what we were discussing. Furthermore, as I said before, by interacting with ChatGPT, you're not really learning anything. You're simply acquiring disjoint knowledge that creates an illusion of learning because knowing things is not the same as understanding ideas. You do not retain much information, nor do you make many mistakes, or rather, the algorithm makes the mistakes for you and you're not thinking much. I know people love shortcuts and hacks to avoid putting in some effort, but at the end of the day, if you want to learn a skill or understand something complex, you have to sit down and think hard about it, and make some mistakes along the way until everything makes sense.

On your second point, don't confuse the idea that a particular skill (in your example, calligraphy) is not that important nowadays with the fact that you can automate everything without negative consequences. However, I definitely agree that LLMs are a great tool for information retrieval, which complements other tools to provide assurances about accuracy.

> You do you, but the longer you put off engaging with these tools, the more at risk you are of having the same kind of awkward relationship with future technology as my 80yo dad has with his cellphone he can barely use, despite having owned a cellphone for a decade or two now.

I engage with those tools regularly. For instance, I like the way LangChain offers tools for information retrieval. Edge's sidebar is particularly impressive for querying information within the current context of the page. I frequently experiment with new models and learning about coding new DL architectures. Therefore, I believe it is a stretch to take my concerns about automation degrading human cognition and equate them to the relationship that older adults have with newer technological trends.