It's an interesting article and you are starting to see more and more of this approach in articles. I think it's a good idea and a smart approach. I think you did a good job of thinking it through and presenting the article. I enjoyed it.

I didn't run any of the code and just scanned through it to see how well it did, as I'm not very familiar with PyTorch. I have spent most of my time with TensorFlow. But you have to admit that GPT3 did pretty well. I find that it does in fact get a lot of things wrong, but what it gets right is impressive. But it does get things wrong and you have to be careful when using it.

When trying to think this through, you realize a few things. Most importantly, the only reason I can read through the article and code and think this is because I have spent the last few years intensively digging into AI/ML, post-grad courses, online courses, researching ways to use ML for the last 10-years or so, and I have been working in IT for the last 30-years. For the last 10-years I have had a side project of trying to use AI/ML to improve compiler optimization. Our experiances are what gives us the ability and insight to read the code and think through the process. GPT3 can't do that for us. Well, at least not yet. If you are unfamiliar with ML/DL, you'd have a hard time figure out what is going on here. So GPT3 in this case is more of a helper than anything.

Also, you are getting 91% accuracy, which is good. But not good enough for production. But now you have to spend time on improving it. There are ANN generated models that get much higher, as high as 99.8% without being overfitted. So, you still have a LOT of work to do. What would it take for GPT3 to optimize this to get 99.8%? I'm not sure it can. That would be an impressive part 2 of the article... using ChatGPT to improve the accuracy, reduce overfitting, fine tuning, etc., etc. 

My point is, something like this cannot replace the skilled data scientist or programmer, but it can signficantly speed up the process of developing new code. I'm not sure if GPT3 is mature enough for me to depend on it in my every day work, but I am open to it.