It's certainly not new, it's just new-ish within this specific context of using much more sophisticated tools to basically replace entire steps along the process.

If you compare this to 2000 years ago, if someone was unwilling to read something but still write about the topic at large, they either had to do some minimalistic research or simply invent stuff based on some very rudimentary understanding of the topic at hand.

Today, I can feed ChatGPT with keywords I don't understand and have it generate something that sounds solid. It's a lot less effort for the individual.

In both cases, the quality and/or lack of sources is equally problematic, the modern approach is just much more convenient.

That said, the problem isn't trying to avoid dedicating more time towards writing yourself vs. outsourcing it to some software tool, it's that by doing so, the overall skillset will succumb to "atrophy" over time, as there is less incentive to use your brain doing this kind of task. 

If society develops in a way where writing about complex topics is no longer required, then I guess it does not matter. But if writing complex texts is still relevant in various jobs, then it's not such a great development for the time being.

This doesn't mean people are going to be less intelligent or less skilled, it just means it will require extra effort to get back on track when required. 
_____
We humans maintain a level of skill due to repetition. The more we do something the better we get at it (usually). Constant use of a skill set and/or continous involvement with a topic keeps us fresh while also exposing us to different ideas and concepts along the way. 

When we retreat from any domain, for whatever reasons, we no longer have that exposure. It may still be relatively easy to re-introduce ourselves and pick up where we left, but sometimes it can be much more of a struggle.

Writing specifically is a skill that requires a lot practice. You can have an entire database of synonyms and impressive phrases at your disposal to express specific things, but unless you put in the time to craft yourself, it's difficult to get a feeling for the language and use it accordingly.

So I'm not entirely sure if Socrates was more upset about taking the easy route, or more concerned about how that might impact people's abilities and talents relevant during his lifetime. 

The way I see it, technology isn't the issue, it's how we use these tools and how that impacts the world around us. 

If future society is going to communicate complex topics only through A.I. generated texts, sure, I guess that's how things will be from then on. But it does make me wonder how much of that human creativity might get lost that is part of that process when writing. There is just something about having thoughts manifesting inside your brain and putting them in writing; it would be sad if that got lost, simply because A.I. would replace that process entirely.