Teacher here - been doing it for 18 years. This kind of critical thinking assignment works great for the higher flying, motivated students. I don’t worry about them using AI to skip out on actual thinking.  These kids have gone through years of critical thinking exercises and have built a foundation of skills and they recognize the importance of learning and how it will help them in the future.  My kindergarten son is not allowed to use a calculator to do his math yet because he’s learning what adding and subtracting actually mean and he’s building important foundational knowledge and his brain his becoming stronger because of the work he’s being forced to do.   One day, a calculator will help him become a better math student but he’s not ready for one yet.  

I have taught middle schoolers through high school seniors and have prided myself on teaching critical thinking skills using assignments that are “ungoogleable”. Many of the assignments that I’ve literally worked 15 years to develop are now easily completed by ChatGPT. Middle school students are not ready for chatgpt but they will absolutely rely upon it to do everything for them and they will develop zero critical thinking skills. I’ve already got 12th grade students who will not attempt assignments in class so that they can just punch the work into ChatGPT.  The daily assignments are worth very little credit in my class and are designed to help them prepare for the summative assessments so these students are predictably failing the tests because they haven’t spent any time actually engaging in any sort of meaningful thought about the content. 

My best students see the value in learning and exercising their brain and I’ve had them do some cool things with ChatGPT but I don’t have an answer to get the average to below average student to engage with things that are academically challenging anymore.  Attention spans have drastically diminished in the last 5 years and I’ve watched more students than ever give up on difficult tasks without giving any effort at all…I genuinely worry about what current middle school kids are going to look like by the time they get to me at the high school.  Some will be just fine but I worry that the number of them who are unwilling to think at all will grow.