Dr Amanda Calhoun, an expert on the mental health effects of racism in the medical field, stated that the quality of ChatGPT therapy compared to IRL therapy depends on what it is modelled after. “If ChatGPT continues to be based on existing databases, which are white-centered, then no,” she told Motherboard. “But what if ChatGPT was ‘trained’ using a database and system created by Black mental health professionals who are experts in the effects of anti-Black racism? Or transgender mental health experts?”

All mental health experts who spoke to Motherboard said that while using ChatGPT for therapy could jeopardize people’s privacy, it was better than nothing, revealing a larger mental care industry in crisis. Using ChatGPT as therapy, according to Emma Dowling, author of The Care Crisis, is an example of a “care fix”—an outsourcing of care to apps, self-care handbooks, robots and corporatized hands.

With GPT-4’s recent release, OpenAI stated that it worked with “50 experts from domains such as AI alignment risks, cybersecurity, biorisk, trust and safety” to improve its security, but it isn’t yet clear how this will be implemented, if at all, for people seeking mental help.

By signing up, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy & to receive electronic communications from Vice Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.

OpenAI is today unrecognizable, with multi-billion-dollar deals and corporate partnerships. Will it seek to own its shiny AI future? 

Like a monkey in a test lab, I handed my autonomy over to the AI chatbot for a day to see what would happen.

The company claims lawmakers should let the NFT-powered metaverse flourish because it will somehow add $3 trillion to global GDP by 2031.

OpenAI’s chatbot could help automate the murky business of corporate political influence, but that wouldn't necessarily be a good thing.

Internal Army documents obtained by Motherboard provide insight on how the Army wanted to reach Gen-Z, women, and Black and Hispanic people through Twitch, Paramount+, and the WWE.

The identity software delayed Americans from getting unemployment checks during a critical period of the pandemic.

Bah-gawd that's 'Marvel's Midnight Suns' music!

How AI innovation is powered by underpaid workers in foreign countries. 

It’s not just porn that’s getting deleted from Imgur. Millions of images that are embedded elsewhere will also eventually be taken down.

“I would side with the Justice Department in this case.” 