My father is dying of cancer currently. I've had to move home to help care for him as the associated dementia has accelerated and made him aggressive and violent towards my mother and any other caretakers (nurses, personal support workers etc.)

I downloaded ChatGPT and asked it this question on March 23rd:

> Im losing my father to cancer and multiple sclerosis and I don't know how to deal with it. 

ChatGPT's response: 

> I'm sorry to hear that you're going through this difficult time. Dealing with the potential loss of a loved one can be extremely challenging, both emotionally and mentally. Here are some suggestions that might help:

> Reach out for support: Consider talking to a trusted friend or family member about your feelings. You may also want to seek professional support from a therapist or counselor.

> Spend time with your father: If your father is able and willing, spend more time with him. Share happy memories with him and do things that bring him comfort and joy.

> Take care of yourself: Take time to take care of yourself physically, emotionally, and mentally. Try to eat healthy and exercise regularly, and make space for self-care activities that bring you joy or help you feel calm.

> Express your feelings: Whether through writing, art, or talking, express your emotions and any inner dialogue that you might be going through.

> Consider getting involved with a support group: If you feel that you can benefit from the support of others who are going through a similar situation, consider joining a support group for people who have loved ones with cancer.

> Remember that there's no right way to deal with difficult situations like this, and being kind to yourself and allowing yourself enough space and time to process your emotions is an important first step.

I was astonished at how insightful, considerate, sympathetic, and helpful this AI was. This is all good, practical advice to better the health of a person's brain. It reminds me how there's fulfillment in helping others cope (despite this might seem counterintuitive), it reminded me to not bottle things up or seek solitude.... 

Phenomenal. 

I don't blame the general public for seeking a frugal alternative, especially in times like these where economic uncertainty is a prevailing sentiment.

My example is one anecdote, but I didn't detect any "harmful bias".