So I am not expert, I’m just an IT guy that has been playing with ChatGPT a lot lately. 

It is very powerful and pretty amazing to play with. I feel like I’m barely scratching the surface of how to utilize it. But after watching a few videos about AI and intentionally trying to test GPT, it is easy to find its limitations and where it makes mistakes. ChatGPT makes me capable of writing code which I’d usually have needed more training that I have to write, but if you didn’t know the first thing about programming, it can’t do it all for you. You have to understand at least a bit about how code works, what you are trying to do and the limitations of the language you are using. 

ChatGPT and most AIs seem determined to always have an answer even if it means they have to make things up. I asked ChatGPT how to test if a variable in AutoHotKey was a string or not and it came up with wrong answer after wrong answer because it assumed I was asking for something which did exist. It would pull functions and methods from other languages, attempt to use functions from AHK in ways they can’t be used. Each time I point out “IsString() isn’t a function in AHK” it would come back with something else, totally sure it had caught a mistake and replaced it.

Then if you ask it to do something like write a report on the French chemist Henry Frankenson and his work with Einstein it will write an amazing document with tons of dates and details for a person who doesn’t exist. It can’t tell that the user is asking about something imaginary because it isn’t just there to look up real people. Because it is supposed to be able to write a story, it will do that when it can’t find the existing facts.

I’ve broken ChatGPT so many times I am confident it and no AI is ready to take over someone’s job unsupervised. Right now it is an amazing tool which requires people to understand how to use it. I don’t think programmers are going to be replaced, they are going to be taking care of easy tasks faster, hired for more complicated tasks and non-programmers are going to be doing some of the easier/simple coding. It isn’t enough to replace a programmer with an intern. It is enough to free up a programmer to complete a major project faster by having the intern write the simple little AHK script instead of the programmer.