Not necessarily. Generic input gets generic output. It won't generate very useful results unless you put critical thought into what you're inputting.

When you want a good email to send someone, what makes it "good"? This technology can't read your mind and give you something universally qualitative. Universal = generic. In order to get a good email, something with the specific qualities that you approve of and are looking for, then you must articulate the components of those individual qualities in order for it to generate as much.

Critical thought is imperative to non-generic results. And people will arguably be incentivized to learn how to think more critically about deconstructing their ideas and learning how to analyze the individual components of such ideas, and thus articulate more intelligent input when they notice other people having relatively more exceptional results from this technology. E.g., *"Hey, how come this generator gives me mediocre shit, but this other person got something as good as what talented humans can do? I guess I should stop using lazy ass basic prompts and actually put in some effort to learn how to input better prompts, which involves learning how to think more critically about my goals..."*

You may say that not everyone will care to do this, and many people will be satisfied with generic results because they don't want to put in critical effort. But, this is no different than our traditional dynamics, right? Some people put in effort and learn how to create quality, and many people pump out mediocre and lazy shit. That's how it's always been. And it will always continue to be that the best quality will often rise to the top, as the novelty of quality often accumulates more unique attention.

Don't take my word for this. Any time somebody says, *"ChatGPT gave me a lazy ass, boring, generic result! It couldn't do what I wanted!,"* ask to see their prompt. You won't be surprised to learn that shit in = shit out. Their prompt will match the quality of their output. This thing isn't magic. You need to be knowledgeable enough to articulate the qualities of a goal if you want valuable output. That requires an extent of critical thought and a good ability to write. **Your writing will actually improve if you work on this**, as you'll need to increase your vocabulary, be clear in communicating your intention, and be cognizant of your overall syntax.

To argue otherwise is to be incredulous to how this technology works and its range of functionality, or because you're intellectually lazy and can't intuit this for yourself based on the implications of how it functions. I want to be clear about that because there's a lot of false confidence asserting otherwise, and it's quite shallow. The fearmongering around this is boring, hysteric, and often dishonest if not plain ignorant.

I can already envision the future of arrogant snobs who have a superiority complex over those who use AI tech like this. *"Oh, you buy your paints at the store? Simpletons have lost the art of making their paints from scratch, and their art suffers as such..."* Like, bruh, just buy your paints. You still need to learn how to use them if you want good art. You can't just throw storebought paint at a canvas and get consistently valuable results. Likewise, you can't just ask ChatGPT to make all your dreams come true unless you know how to write and think well enough to articulate the qualities of your dreams. You can do it the old-school way and write everything yourself, in the same way you can cancel the Internet and go to the library to learn everything--that doesn't mean it's better, though, nor does it mean that anything is lost from taking advantage of new technology.

**TL;DR: Copypaste my comment into ChatGPT and ask it to summarize. Also, ask it to tone down my rustled jimmies and translate it to be more professional if you want a more formal version of my argument.** Then argue with it if you disagree with any of my points, because I'm not sticking around to handfeed you dipshits out of your hysteric biases and lazy thinking.