This title is extremely misleading in nature. Not wrong, but misleading. (I mean it could also be wrong but assuming it's factually correct the phrasing is still disingenuous) ChatGPT isn't just an AI, it's an AI that was designed SPECIFICALLY to have functionality in place to create things with a bias of the creators. Of course it's advertised as "our AI won't glorify pain or tell lies" but that's still a bias, they have programmed the AI such that it is INTENTIONALLY DESIGNED to not be completely neutral. 

&#x200B;

Sure, I think most people could agree that when it comes to things like pain being bad, lies being bad, etc. that "oh well of course, that's justified" but the reality is that in any case the internal infrastructure has been put in place to let the humans behind the AI control what the AI can say. (personally I think instead we should just let people decide what they want to see and not dictate that for them since they're either grown ass adults or a grown ass adult has let them onto the internet unsupervised, but that's neither here nor there) This isn't "haha conservatives think AI going woke" it's "people not convinced mega-corporation isn't using the tools they created to introduce bias into their system to introduce bias into their system". Buuuuut that doesn't get as many clicks, does it? ChatGPT was explicitly created so that the people behind it could pre-tailor the information it spat out, and yet people starting to think "hey you think maybe they're tailoring this information for political reasons to" is painted as "CONSERVATIVES THINK AI GONE WOKE?!". 

Even if you are left leaning I don't understand why people tolerate this sort of crap; it's still intellectually dishonest drivel no matter which side it comes from. Not technically being a lie shouldn't give a pass for clearly being designed to insinuate false information. (and, again, this is if we just blindly take for granted that everything in the article is true which, well, if you think everything news publications release is true you're beyond help)