It seems they've made a machine for generating legit-looking text.  I've heard numerous stories about it so far making up code samples that \*look\* correct at first, but it just made up method calls that don't actually exist, or in one case it was asked for a research paper and it made up a scholarly article to cite.  It listed authors who are real people who are really involved with the subject in question who have written relevant articles, but it elected to invent a fictional one and cite it instead.

I'm hoping this will have a strong positive impact on academia, specifically how scholarly writing is taught.  Notionally, college writing courses (what I know of as ENG 111 and 112) are supposed to teach how to maintain factual accuracy, academic honesty and intellectual integrity.  Choosing reputable sources, citing them properly to 1. avoid plagiarism and 2. allow the reader to retrace your steps, and using information correctly, in proper context, to actually support the point you're trying to make.

In practice, the writing assignments you get in these classes tend to be grammar exercises writ large.  It's faster and easier for a professor to grade on technically correct MLA formatting, spelling, punctuation, citation format etc. than to do all that intellectual "does this source exist, and if it does, is the author a crackpot" stuff.  Add to this that way too many teachers seem to miss the point of school entirely and focus on making the course challenging rather than helpful, and you get "You have to write a ten page paper with at least eight sentences per paragraph" and shit like that.  So instead of spending their time looking into the background and context of their sources, doing actual goddamn research, students spend most of their essay writing time staring at Microsoft Word beating their brains in trying to figure out how to bloat "it's like this, because this author and that author and the other author said so in the papers they wrote" into two and a half pages.

Well guess what?  ChatGPT is pretty well purpose built to generate impeccably formatted essays that look completely legitimate...but are probably outright wrong and based on sources it outright made up.  They're worried about students "cheating."  "How can we force them to do the thing I had to do, the way I had to do it?"  No, this is an opportunity to improve the way we teach research, fact checking, verification, validation.  No one will take it, because our society is in decline/collapse.  But it's an opportunity.