CAD, calculators, and cash registers have had huge implications though!

What used to be done by a room full of 15 professionals with slide rules is now done by one architect at a computer. He's as productive as 15 people (let's say 30 because CAD doesn't just do math efficiently, it does more). Is he making 15x or 30x the money? Hell no. But the owner of the company is. At the expense of 14 good jobs. Yeah, maybe the architect is making a little more and he's able to make more jobs in the Uber Eats field, or his neighborhood Best Buy makes more sales and therefore hires another person. But these are not the jobs the middle class needs. 

The cash register isn't as disruptive, but cashiers have become less skilled positions as time goes on and they've made less money relative to the mean. And now we're seeing what may have taken 5 cashiers with decent jobs doing simple math replaced by one person who goes to the machine and enters his manager's code when something rings up wrong. But think of all the money Target saves by not hiring people!

I don't think reasonable people are saying "AI is going to eat us! AI is going to literally ruin the entire economy for everyone!" But it will further concentrate wealth. Business owners will be able to get more done per employee. This means less employees. ChatGPT or whatever program does this in 5 years will be incredibly useful and priced accordingly. This makes it harder for competition to start.

It won't lay off every programmer or writer or whatever. But it will lead to a future closer to where a team of programmers with great jobs (and Jr's with good jobs too!) can be replaced by several mid tier guys that run the automated updates to chatgpt and approve it's code. Maybe in our lifetimes, it only makes programmers 10% more efficient. That's still 10% less programming jobs out there and all that money being further concentrated.

I'm the last one to stand in front of progress just to stand in front of progress. This is an amazing tool that will change the world and has potential to do so positively. I'm glad we invented computers (but also that we had social safety nets for the now out of work slide rule users). 

But to say AI, calculators, the printing press, didn't come with problems is not true.

I'd argue that a reasonable vision of ChatGPT, not "ask it how to solve world hunger and it spits out a plan, ask it to write a novel and it writes War and Peace but better" but instead "it can write code better than an inexperienced coder and write a vacation brochure with approval by an editor", it has a potential to be more disruptive than the calculator was. Of course how would one measure these things anyway and doing so is a silly premise anyway.