That first sentence is delusional so many people go to work and don't use AI at all. I cannot tell you how little use AI is in my ERP job. 

"Time and place" comment - I agree with this generally. ChatGPT is not a "technology of the day" its (effectively) not used in industry currently. I think using ChatGPT to solve problems in like idk some shit called BIO 320 or whatever goes all the way on the "use technology side". Don't act like I'm blind to this spectrum, I just have a different idea of the center to you and how balances can be implemented. 

"Employers" comment - theres a reason I mentioned foundational knowledge then immediately said 2 things that leads to. However foundational knowledge is also big to employers, I mean they test you on it. I agree they might want more than that as well, do you think in < 3 years they want to hear how you used ChatGPT today?

Last paragraph - That professor is (probably) unqualified to teach on ChatGPT. What if the class its a prerequisite for doesn't allow it? When I was an MEE they actually added a new course: "programming for engineers" it did not replace a course previously seen as necessary, it was recommended to students to take it. They can offer a ChatGPT course but you and I both know what the success of that would look like. 

We have 2 goals going to school, do what we need to do, and do it when it has to be done. I have worked a variety of jobs (quality/design engineer, ERP, IT Tech) and faced some pretty awful challenges in all of them. I've never used ChatGPT or seen someone else use it (or could imagine it helping). Its a topic that gets hits but its ok if students want to ignore AI right now. Watch a YouTube video about it in a couple years, take an accredited course/cert on it in a couple more.

"AI will be a huge part of all industries" is a fact, I don't exactly have to worry someone will prove me wrong but "students today need to learn to apply an experimental AI not built for their application to solve assignments originally intended to be solved by studying and industry standard methods. It is appropriate for a teacher to adjust their biology class to focus on ChatGPT use" is a vastly different statement.