Great to see another clever person with the same Stefon idea! I might have been a bit nitpicky in trying to get ChatGPT to stick to the sketch format as much as possible, but by the end, ChatGPT had nailed it pretty well. It wasn't exactly thrilled about adding the midget part, but it did. You're right, ChatGPT is just too good at this! I think it has a better sense of humor than most humans! Here's what it came up with for me, edited a lot to make it a shorter.

STEFON: New York's hottest club is 'Mucus' located in the belly button of the Statue of Liberty. This club has everything: lava lamps filled with nasal mucus, human-sized Q-tips for cleaning out your ears, a dance floor made entirely of belly button lint, and a special appearance by DJ Booger!

STEFON: New York's hottest club is 'Fruit Loops' located in a giant cereal bowl in Times Square! This club has everything: a bouncy castle filled with milk, a cereal bar with 50 different types of cereal and milk combinations, a giant spoon for selfies, and a live performance by the one and only Tony the Tiger!

STEFON: If you're looking for a wholesome family outing in New York, look no further. New York's hottest club is "Spice Bagel" located in a sewer pipe under Central Park! This club has everything: a giant bagel-shaped disco ball, a DJ who's half-man half-bagel, a dance floor made of cream cheese, and a secret menu that includes the "lox on lock" cocktail.

STEFON: If you're feeling patriotic, head to New York's hottest club, "America" - located inside a decommissioned battleship in the harbor. This club has everything: bald eagle-shaped disco balls, a drink called the "Founding Father," a dance floor made of melted army men, and a special appearance by Abraham Lincoln's ghost!

STEFON: If you're feeling a bit more risqué, you've got to check out "Spanks" - New York's hottest club located in the abandoned stock exchange building! This club has everything: a giant paddle-shaped dance floor, a drink called the "Red Cheeks," a DJ dressed as a naughty schoolgirl, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as schoolboys, getting spanked by the guests!

STEFON: This one is not for the faint of heart, Seth. New York's hottest club is "Dong" - located in a condemned nuclear power plant in Brooklyn. This club has everything: a glow-in-the-dark dance floor, a drink called the "Meltdown," a DJ dressed as a radioactive dong, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as scientists, experimenting with their own "mini-meltdowns"!

&#x200B;

SETH MEYERS: Stefon, we've been hearing a lot of feedback from our viewers in the Midwest who want to know what they can do if they're visiting New York and want a classic vacation experience.

STEFON: (interrupting) Oh, Seth, I'm so glad you asked. If you're looking for a classic New York vacation, look no further than New York's hottest club - "Shpritz" - located in a water tower on the Lower East Side. This club has everything: a drink called the "Geyser," a dance floor made of rubber ducks, a DJ dressed as a giant loofah, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as lifeguards, performing synchronized swimming in a kiddie pool filled with seltzer!

STEFON: Well, if you're looking for something a bit more glamorous, you've got to check out "Glamtron" - New York's hottest club located in a disco ball-shaped building in Times Square. This club has everything: a drink called the "Glitter Bomb," a dance floor made of mirrored tiles, a DJ dressed as a spaceman, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as glittery aliens, being beamed up to the mothership!

SETH MEYERS: Stefon, remember, we're here to help nice, normal people from \[a nice, normal location\] find classic New York experiences. What have you got for us?

STEFON: (nodding) Right, right, classic New York experiences. Well, if you're looking for a classic New York club experience, you've got to check out "Pants" - New York's hottest club located in an abandoned subway car in Queens!

SETH MEYERS: (interrupting) Stefon, we talked about this. That doesn't sound like a classic New York experience.

STEFON: Well, how about "Rooftop" - New York's hottest club located on the roof of the Chrysler Building!

SETH MEYERS: (smiling) That's more like it. What's the scene like at "Rooftop?"

STEFON: (grinning) This club has everything: a drink called the "Skyline," a dance floor made of clouds, a DJ dressed as a giant sun, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as pigeons, cooing and pecking at the guests!

SETH MEYERS: (interrupting again) Stefon, that's not a classic New York experience either.

STEFON: (realizing his mistake again) Oh, sorry, sorry. Well, if you're looking for a classic New York restaurant experience, you've got to try "Meatball" - New York's hottest restaurant located in the meatpacking district!

SETH MEYERS: (smiling and nodding) That sounds more like it. What can we expect at "Meatball?"

STEFON: (excitedly) This restaurant has everything: meatballs the size of basketballs, a drink called the "Meat Juice," a waiter dressed as a giant meatball, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as Italian grandmas, pinching the cheeks of the guests and yelling "Mangia!"

STEFON: If you're looking for a wild time, New York's hottest club is "Slice" - located in the haunted remains of a Pizza Hut on the Lower East Side. This club has everything: a ghost pepper cocktail, a deep dish dance floor, a DJ dressed as a slice of pepperoni pizza, and a human-sized hamster wheel for the guests to run in, but it's operated by midgets!

SETH MEYERS: (raising an eyebrow) Wait, what was that last part?

STEFON: You know it's that thing of when a midget runs in a hamster wheel wearing a pepperoni costume and the whole club is covered in marinara sauce!

SETH MEYERS: (pausing for a moment) Oh, that thing. I'm pretty sure that's not a thing.

STEFON: (nodding vigorously) Yes, it is.

&#x200B;

STEFON: If you're looking for a wholesome family outing in New York, look no further than 'Cranium' - located in the back alley of an abandoned hospital in Brooklyn. This Upper Lower East side mind-meld is the creation of Randers Elon Muskowitz. It finally answers the question, 'Do I have to?' This club has everything: a dance floor made of MRI machines, a drink called the 'Brain Drain,' a DJ dressed as a mad scientist, and a special appearance by midgets dressed as tiny doctors, performing brain surgeries on unsuspecting partygoers!

*OMG, I just read all of this again and realized how freaking brilliantly funny it is!*