This was my concern. This.

Folks. It is very simple. Being exposed to poison *in any form* makes people sick.

Some people have a natural tolerance for this. 
Some people have built up immunities. 
*And most of us do not.*

War is a perfect analogy. Some people deal with the horror and atrocity as though none of it is real and go on to lead ordinary lives. And yet *most people do not*.

What “imaginary” horror depicting real life atrocity, injustice, abuse, and *monstrosity* (important word) does for a great many people is cause them to be *horrified*. Continued exposure to said horror can result in being numb to said horor, yet for many and perhaps most people is it results in sickness and trauma.

If this is not you, wow, how about that, you are in the vast minority. Meanwhile, many people again if not most suffer terribly from continued exposure to (even the depiction of) the genuinely terrible.

Don’t even get me started on cultural differences. Yet allow me to point out, porn in many cultures around the world is not commonly available in the same way as it is in the West. It just isn’t. Not that people cannot find it, [it’s just people in other cultures don’t look for it](https://uk.news.yahoo.com/pornhub-study-reveals-2022-trends-172425260.html). So when exposed to it intensely, repetitively, and unrelentingly, no surprise: people get sick ie traumatized.

There are individuals in laws enforcement who professionally look over material that contain awfulness. These are legitimately not ordinary individuals. Largely, they have extraordinary training or come from backgrounds–including expressing specific temperaments–which enable them to **not**, one, be hurt, and, two, go on to hurt others.

This is why most people don’t work in these fields as these types of professionals (child abuse investigators, etc). Even so, it is common knowledge that people in these roles are prone to…wait for it…*trauma* [owing to exposure to criminal (harmfully anti-social) information and materials](https://academic.oup.com/occmed/article/68/3/165/4932779). And these are trained professionals!

Finally, remember this: Folks are having intelligent conversation with ChatGPT which are (frequently shockingly) emotionally complex and sophisticated who are prepared and expert natural languag and AI professionals.

Imagine unloading this kind of interactions, for continued exposure, to people in rural communities throughout the US. People would unquestionably become sickened or aberrational, hurting others and themselves. 

So for everyone who is not prone to being made ill by repeated exposure to aggressively and disturbingly hurtful imagery of sexual violence against others, wow, that must really be something. For the rest of us, particularly for those who are even ordinarily empathetic, this would be a nightmare come true or a cruel form of punishment or even a death sentence. 

There is a very old saying that is popular and widely-known throughout Africa and the Caribbean, “Eat the devil’s candy, belly aches.” This is not news. 

Shame on OpenAI. At least when we poison water we can move away from it. What happens when we poison minds?