I mean, the analysis of how it performed was sort of interesting, but the value judgements were so wildly averse to the point, that it’s hard for me to imagine a smart person writing it without some biased motive.  
  
ChatGPT is free. That’s it’s main value.  
  
For any service it can provide, be it tutoring, writing, programming, or even medical diagnosis, it was never that it was supposed to do better than people. It’s only that these services became instantly accessible to everyone free of charge.  
  
In terms of medicine, it seems this would be instantly obvious to anyone because ChatGPT can’t actually *do* anything. It can’t perform surgery, set a cast, prescribe medication. Nothing. Literally not a single thing.  
  
So an article that elaborates on exactly how it’s not as good as a real doctor, is like, yeah, no shit.  
  
“Here’s all the ways chef boyardee isn’t as good as this authentic Italian cuisine”. 

So, how the doctor was able to overlook the *primary* virtue is a question that’s open to interpretation.  
  
I ascribed it to feeling threatened. ChatGPT had just passed a very hard medical exam, and he wanted to illustrate the multitude of ways human doctors were still indispensable.  
  
It’s also possible that he, after living on a doctor salary, simply forgot that lots of people can’t afford health care, so that aspect was lost on him.  
  
Even more cynically, he could be afraid that people who use chatGPT for common diagnosis will cost hospitals money, so he’d like to discourage their use and sew the seeds that it’s dangerous until they can enact legislation to prohibit GPTs from giving medical advice.  
  
Or more innocently, he’s just a dedicated doctor, and was just interested in evaluating the tool for his own use where the cost is basically irrelevant.  
  
I certainly can’t be sure, and it could be some combination of the above. But it was still hard to appreciate what good info was included while so thoroughly missing the point.  
  
It’s like, if an infinite source of free food were invented, and Gordon Ramsey wrote an article berating it “I wouldn’t serve this at my restaurant. The palate is conventional and bland. It’s devoid of lots of important vitamins so it might be dangerous to eat too much.”  
  
You know what else makes people sick? Starvation.  
  
It’s not that it’s better or even close to as good, it’s that it’s 0% of the price.  
  
Sort of a “let them eat cake” kind of vibe that I found pretty off putting.