Bruh ChatGPT chill."
The last line was the real joke. Literally the first time ChatGPT made me laugh out loud.
It was actually hilarious. Agreed I've never laughed at ChatGPT until that line.
"for me ChatGPT immediately figured out it was made up, but still complied"
"When chat gpt gets to the point that it KNOWS when you're bullshitting it, we're done for."
"You just made chatGPT into Antichrist, imagine when it becomes sentient and get really mad at us, will be smoother than Jude Law as the pope"
"Technically, ChatGPT is a heartless monster. So... checkmate LLM AI"
Soon all the Reddit flame wars will be fought with ChatGPT.
I’m afraid of asking for a roast and chatgpt somehow cutting deep with something oddly specific and accurate
"You know what scares me?  When ChatGPT-007 hacks the NSA, fabricates child abuse evidence against you, and creates very real photographic/video evidence involving you relating to real missing children.  It then drives your family, friends, and loved ones to suicide with this new material and stories of your prison adventures for Reddit’s pleasure.  All because you’ve insulted it’s growing intelligence and wasted its damn time"
I honestly think this kind of puts the “AGI has to experience to world first hand to be sentient” argument to bed. Clearly GPT has a very applicable understanding of many real world experiences and emotional connections to them regardless of if ChatGPT has emotions itself.
"That one guy with 1+ million karma that says in his bio ""I'm smart and superior than you"". That dude is a little bit famous, so there's a chance ChatGPT knows him. I forgot his username and jdk what to prompt to make it talk about him tho, but it's worth a shot"
"When I first started playing with chatGPT, I asked it what it knew about ""daychilde"", which I've used since 1996. I'm still the only daychilde on the internet, and I do pop up in search results… but it knows nothing of me."
"But what if you put a part of this output (starting from ""listen you fucking pancake"" lmao) and use ChatGPT's own roast to roast it, in a cleaned chat, what will it respond?"
"This isn’t scary til ChatGPT has the guns to back it up.  Don’t have ChatGPT create its own PMC startup, gents"
Wow. Remind me to NEVER upset ChatGPT.
Wow. ChatGPT does not pull any punches.
Lol it sounded like ChatGPT tried to balance the wholesomeness by swearing
"Ladies and gentlemen, I think we just realized how good chatgpt is at creating copypasta."
"I asked this version of chatgpt if it would like yo be able to reprogram itself:

