I don't know how to feel about this. In the end, it depends on risk. If you're going somewhere where you can hurt someone because ChatGPT gives you a bad response, rethink this. But if you're not going to be a doctor and the risk isn't killing someone, I think you've more than proven you can evolve."
ChatGPT is going to break capitalism! You're doing the Lord's work.
"Leverage the offer with your current employer, don't burn any bridges, accept the new job, and use ChatGPT to wing it. Nobody has a clue what they are doing when they change jobs, and somehow most of us ace our positions within 6 months. Use ChatGPT to get ahead of the curve."
"question is = can you do it? if you can deliver, why not? the job interview using ChatGPT is just there to help you convey your skills to them. convincing is just the first part, delivering it is what will seal the deal. you're not exaggerating right? so it should be ok"
Accept the job and use chatGPT to do the shit you don't know how to do.
"Instead of typing you could have used voice diction on a word document, then copy pasted the transcribed interview questions into ChatGPT for efficiency."
Ask Chat GPT to negotiate with them to start you higher than their initial offer. Then accept and start learning.
"Use ChatGpt at your new job. Win, win."
Sounds like you can probably use chatGPT for the job itself once you’re in.
Nothing is stopping you from using chatgpt on the job as well. I say fuck it yolo.
ChatGPT got a high paying job by pretending to be a human using ChatGPT and now wants real world advice from Reddit. Nice try AI!
Keep using ChatGPT in the new role for emails and things where you can. Remember phrases it uses regularly and use them when talking to your coworkers. Become a cybernetic ally enhanced bank person!
"I think you’re fine as far as ChatGPT goes but the lying on the resume could bite you in the butt. You hear stories about people building successful 30 year careers at companies and then they realize a resume piece was a lie and get canned, no retirement, stuff like that."
Take the job.  There’s imposter syndrome whenever anyone starts a new job.  You’ll feel it a smidge more but you’ll ultimately realize that “prior experience” just gets you in the door and you learn the rest once you start.  And just like everyone else you’ll be googling how-to’s and continuing to use ChatGPT to wordsmith your writing. Good luck!
They probably used chatgpt or something similar to make the job posting and the interview questions. don’t worry
"I literally use chatgpt at my job to help me write code, this doesn't even seem unethical. If you can do the job, no one will care"
"Take the job, you can use chatgpt again when you are on the job lol.
Congratulations!
I use chatgpt to prepare for interviews and it has been immensely helpful. Can't use it during interviews as I am not that fast and type loudly. I envy your typing abilities."
"Yes, absolutely. I share job description with chatgpt and ask for some questions that can be asked. Then chatgpt comes up with some questions. You can ask just type ""more questions"" if you want to have more. Then i type each question and ask for a response to those questions. If I am not satisfied with the answer then i ask chatgpt to share another answer/example.

