In the same way, sometimes people want to dream about the what if of the technology and ask the same kinds of philosophical questions of what if chat GPT managed to become the first robo-sentience?  If we ever reach a society that creates a true robo-sentient being, I'd love to have talked about the ethics of it through a chat bot that inspired people long before that being exists."
"I mean you really lose credibility by making the worst possible analogy. While you’re right that a bird is likely to have a train of thought like you say, you seem to discount the fact that parrots can and do speak intentionally. They do not exclusively mimic. Birds have been recorded formulating questions, even about themselves. They also demonstrate immense intelligence and ability to communicate using sounds. They do not understand language as we do, they do not understand language even as well as chatgpt does. But they are able to associate concepts with sounds (which is all that humans do) and they can then make these noises to express a mutually agreed upon concept. It’s like saying children don’t have any understanding of what they’re saying. They just make a noise of “I need to go potty” because they know it results in going potty, and that’s what they want. The child understands that going potty explicitly means going potty. The parrot explicitly understands that in order to receive a snack rather than something else, he must ask for a snack. He does not blindly make noises only out of superstition like you seem to claim. In your scenario the fuckin hell noise seems to be mutually agreed between him and his human that the sound means attention time. The bird understands that that’s what that means, he just doesn’t understand the context of the English language to be able to realize that that’s not what that means. My friend’s mom told him as a child that ‘cookie’ was the word for broccoli, so when he would ask for cookies his mom would give him broccoli. When he is in school and a kid brings cookies for his birthday, he is confused as to why there’s no broccoli, but you can’t say he didn’t understand that the sound ‘cookie’ meant broccoli. In the world constructed between him and his mom, that is what that meant.

