I generally take a pretty lenient view related to questions of protecting people from themselves, especially when the lack of any meaningful social safety net means people really are the only advocates for their own protection. It seems hypocritical to say “people must be responsible to protect themselves, but we don’t trust people to protect themselves.”  
  
A you know what I mean?  
  
There certainly are always ~~lots of~~ a few ~~idiots~~ people, who will discover innovative new ways to disprove the presumed safety of anything.  
  
But I tend to not let the preservation of the ~~dumbest~~ most vulnerable people sway my general evaluation of a system.  
  
The way I see it, knowledge is good. Medicine and biology are huge and complicated disciplines. People having free and easy access to knowledge is a wonderful thing.  
  
Of all ailments, people will have anecdotally only stumbled across familiarity with a tiny fraction of them. Right?  
  
Somebody knows about Chicken Pox, because they had it had a kid, and they know about MS is because of Michele J Fox. But there are literally thousands of ailments that people are vulnerable to that they’ve never heard of.  
  
If they ask char GPT “what might X symptoms indicate”, and chat GPT gives them a list of the 6 most likely illnesses, that’s probably going to include new knowledge.  
  
A good example of this happened a few days ago. My wife was hearing a strange rhythmic noise in time with her pulse. She asked charGPT, and learned about “pulsatile tinnitus”, which is essentially the name of a condition where your ear picks up on a sound of your pulse.  
  
It wasn’t serious, and in absence of chatGPT, she’d probably have just been like “that was weird”, because it’s unlikely she’d have been compelled to see a doctor over it. But now she knows what it’s called. If she ever sees a doctor, she’ll be able to articulate she had experienced a bit of “pulsatile tinnitus”.  
  
Now, possible causes for pulsatile tinnitus include brain aneurism. A hypochondriac might have flipped out. But, there’d be nothing stopping that person from flipping out anyway.  
  
I don’t know. I guess I just don’t give a shit, or maybe I’m just worn down, about kid-gloving the world to ~~enable~~ protect the incompetent.  
  
It’s like, there’s something like 10% flat earthers… we could hypothetically institute some ban on flat maps in order to not aid in confusing them further… institute some globe or 3D only map initiative… but really, I just don’t think it’s really even worth wasting energy thinking about.