Also had professors who made us write code on paper. That was the most useless garbage ever, even in the age of ChatGPT. Code doesn’t compile on paper, and in real life I have IDEs that will tell me when my syntax is off. I never have to create value tables for loops in real life because I can just have a print statement do that for me. Anything simple enough to be included in a printed CS exam is simple enough to be tested on a computer in a fraction of a fraction of a second. It takes me less time to write a loop and run it than it does to trace a loop on paper. 

I might also be salty about this because my first CS prof made us trace variable values through 10 iterations of a loop on paper… And made us find “syntax errors” that were a missing semicolon in ten printed pages of code. My IDE would find the mistake immediately and tell me where to add a semicolon. He also accused a student of “cheating” and flunked them for using an IDE which automatically highlighted simple syntax errors over the proprietary textbook publisher IDE that didn’t even execute code properly. CS professors who are anal about doing things the “old fashioned way” need to get their head out of their ass, because they are preparing students to work in a field that could not give a fuck about “tradition” if it stands in the way of completing a task quicker and more accurately.

Shitty programmers will out themselves when they try to incorporate ChatGPT code into a functional pipeline. I’m not concerned about ChatGPT ruining the concept of academic integrity for the entirety of CS education. ChatGPT does a lot to help me along with simple programming tasks, but it can’t build an entire data pipeline while incorporating business acumen and statistical insights. I doubt that people defending syntactical paper coding exams actually work in a tech-adjacent environment where they have to write functional code quickly every day. It’s my job to know syntax already, and my IDE’s job to alert me quickly and concisely when I fuck up. Plus, any shmuck can learn a programming language in a few weeks. The fucking syntax of JavaScript isn’t what a CS degree is supposed to teach me. No apologies for lazy professors who can’t be bothered to assess their class properly. If a student can use ChatGPT to automate some of their code-writing and piece it into a larger functional program, the industry would reward them for that.