But at the same time, I do think most of the arguments for *why* it *can't possibly be* intelligent are not very good arguments. I don't know if persuasively intelligent machines will ever come, but if they do, we're going to see exactly this pattern of human denial at every step of the way."
"Considering passing the Bar exam and the medical board exam requires reading information and data, interpreting the information, committing it ti memory, and then application in real world scenarios (half of both the medical board exam and bar exam are applying logic to case studies), then what makes a lawyer or doctor any different than ChatGPT?  ChatGPT passed both of these exams, legally making it both a doctor and a lawyer.
The fact is, we all stand on the shoulders of giants.  No lawyer or doctor today uses knowledge that wasn’t gained from others before them.  No doctor discovered a new organ or part of anatomy that we haven’t already known about for centuries.
ChatGPT may not be able to find new discoveries in advanced fields, but it can free up the time of people in those fields to make those discoveries."
OP asked ChatGPT to be his girlfriend and it said no
"ChatGPT exposes that there is ultimately nothing to writing and to most of our modern forms of communication. How many ""virtual interactions"" do you have view texting and posting? You assume intentionality from me, but you never actually experience it. Every single person on this thread including you and me could be a GPT3 bot and no one would be able to tell the difference."
"Between ChatGPT and Reddit comments, I know who I'd trust more."
You’ve picked something totally subjective like writing a movie review. It’s like asking if my aunt is a jerk or not. It’s generally useless information that we’d never ask AI to provide. Chat GPT can provide an answer in the same way that Google can - it summarizes a massive amount of existing information.  It also probably had as many original thoughts as you’ve had… and I don’t mean that as an insult.
"Wait until you find out how a human brain works.

