Now if did use ChatGPT, it’ll be best to bite the bullet. Showing that the AI detection tool has false-positives only shows that there is the possibility that you didn’t cheat, not that you didn’t cheat. Assuming your teacher/professor is good, they’ll work with you to find other ways of determining whether you wrote your essay yourself or not, and if they’re bad, they’ll assume guilt until proven innocent. Based on the tone of this email it looks like you’re luckily getting the former which means not being antagonistic is a good first step. If did you ChatGPT and you waste your teacher’s time as they determine through other more solid evidence than TurnItIn that you did not do the whole essay yourself (and it would be fairly clear with version history and editing time which one it is), or try to obsfucate/withhold the evidence, then you will be in much more trouble than if you come clean. We’re still in early days of AI so it’s possible (and based on the tone decently likely), that in the worst case you would just be forced to rewrite the essay but in your own style, and given a warning. If you waste the teacher’s time and lie to them, you could face much more severe punishments depending on what level of education you’re in and the relevant policies. So only fight on this if you actually did not use ChatGPT to write your essay and you have evidence to back that up."
"I'm a professor. If I was calling you in, I would first ask if you used chatgpt or something to write the paper. When you say no, I would then ask you to tell me about the paper. Do you actually know what you wrote? I would then ask you to tell me about the process you used to write the paper. Did you read some journal articles or look up other types of references? I assume you cited references. It would help if you had paper copies of the references (bonus points if they are underlined or highlighted). If you have any computer paper trial, an early draft, a screen shot showing the save date or version history, etc., all of that would be in your favor.

