In my opinion, all these detection sites are grifts."
"This sounds like so stupid man, I am just going to put all the blame to the professor and that stupid chatgpt that they think it is the god or something, that's just stupid."
Headline should read: Cluless professor doesn’t know how Chat GPT works and mistakenly fails students
ChatGPT has no way of telling if it wrote something. This professor does not understand this technology so shouldn’t have been failing people. ChatGPT will write convincingly false and wrong answers.
Sounds like a lawsuit to me. Perhaps the professor can use ChatGPT for his defense lawyer.
Now they are going to understand what is wrong with chatGPT it's just not smart and now it's just the time that all the people should understand that simple thing.
"ChatGPT falsely claims a lot of things. Anyone using it thinking they are always getting true information, is setting themselves up for trouble."
"That’s massively irresponsible of him. Even the detection software’s results are highly circumstantial. A sound case can usually be made if a student did use AI to generate a paragraph, but this is not how you do it. If you A/B the vocabulary, grammar, and sentence structure against a sample of the student’s known writing, that usually gives them dead away. Usually they confess when confronted, but when they don’t it’s even more work to prove the case because you need to be sure. I burned a weekend recently to process 3 cheaters I caught using ChatGPT. The one who did not confess took me all day to build my case because it’s not something to treat lightly especially without an admission."
The most dangerous thing currently does not appear to be students understanding how to use chaGPT but administration not understanding chatGPT detection
How hard is it for the professor to just look at past work if he thinks someone is using chatgpt. Should be pretty clear if they are using it since the writing style will be completely different.
"Ironic that a professor would be so scared of their students using chat gpt that they wouldn’t read it and run it through a program to determine if ai wrote it. Sounds like using ai to do their job, not the other way around"
">""I put everyone's last three assignments through two separate times and if they were both claimed by Chat GTP you received a 0,"" he added.

